# S1 : E1 End-to-End Machine Learning

## Description

This is a series of various practical machine learning and data science techniques. The blog follows the book **Building Machine Learning Powered Applications** by *Emmanuel Ameisen*. The book is available on the O'reilly platform and the hard-copy of the book can be purchased on Amazon [link](https://www.amazon.com/Building-Machine-Learning-Powered-Applications/dp/149204511X). This blog will contain some of the important lessons learned from the book.

I will try to keep all the code and important information on github and will keep updating while reading the book.

This blog will be written in a form of episodes where I will try to cover some chapters in each episodes.

## Chapter 1 : From Product Goal to Machine Learning

This chapter starts with the basic introduction of machine learning techniques, it assumes to have basic understanding of the machine learning algorithms. It provides some details about different scenario where we should or shouldn't use machine learning algorithms. One scenario is whenever we can solve any problem with a deterministic approach we shouldn't use machine learning solution.

Using this core concept in mind, we will design a ML assisted writing program which can help us writing like gmail autofill feature.

The best way to evaluate any ML application is by using two steps
1. ### Framing a product goal in an ML paradigm :
    Covert any problem that performance increase with data, basically we want to convert the problem into a **learning function from data**
2. ### Evaluating ML feasibility :
    **Choose a potential ML framing that can fit according to our problem.** There are many existing ML framework are present, we have to choose something that can solve our problem efficiently.

There are two core aspect of ML problem  : Data and Models

1. ### Models
There are many ways we can develop a Machine Learning Model, the first phase of the model starts with examining and classifying the problem into suitable type. Majorly category in ML algorithms are supervised and unsupervised. These two categories are defined in the following ways.

- Supervised learning : These algorithms requires label data which help us to find out solution for classification or regression problem. In a simple probabilistic term we can write them as a `conditional probabilities` like P(Y/X) where Y is the label of the data with given X features.

- Unsupervised learning : These algorithms do not required data and the primarily used for determining the cluster or segmantation in the data. These algorithms can be described as the `marginal probabilities` P(X) for given data feature X.

Similarly, we can define various other algorithms for our model and select the most appropriate one according to our problem statement.

- Classification and regression
- Knowledge extraction
- Catalog organization
- Generative models

#### Classification and regression

The classification and regression are same type of problem with different type of output. If the predicted label is a some sort of category or class than it's a classification algorithm whereas if the output is a continuos value then it will be a regression problem.

The other type of problem which is used in prediction is time series based in which the data is arranged in a continuous stream of values in a given time interval. This is called `time series forecasting`.

When we try to detect any unusual events from the dataset, it is like detecting a small trace of the data from the entire dataset. This is called `anomaly detection`.

Good classification and regression models requires a significant feature engineering. Feature selection consists of getting subset of features that have most predictive values. Feature generation task requires identification and generation of the good predictors of the target by combining and modifying the existing set of features.

Neural network show a promising results by extracting the features by themselves using multiple hidden layers. Currently, we use NN for complex tasks like Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing.

#### Knowledge Extraction from the Unstructured Data

The *structured data* is stored in a table  with some proper format, whereas the *unstructured data* consists of non tabular format. It includes text, music, video and sound.

In reality majority of the data available on the internet includes unstructured data. There are many machine learning problems can be solved by using unstructured data. For example, we can use medical publications to create a database which can help medical researchers to get more detailed information from paper or journals.

Similarly for the image analysis we can create the segmentation for various parts of the image, like detecting the object or recognizing the content in the image.

Sometimes we can extract the information using one model and feed it to another model to get more precise information, like knowing the yoga pose from the image.

#### Catalog Organization 

In this type we arrange the catalog according to the similarity of the items. For example in netflix we can see the movies are recommended based on the genres and other popularity factors. This can be done either by using `collaborative filtering` or by using `contend-based` recommendation system. 

#### Generative models 

These types of models are exclusively used in data generating process. The generative models do not have any clearn performance metrics and do not have very special use cases. These are mainly used for the image transformation task where two images are fused with each other produces the joint distribution of both of the images. 

### Data 

The data is integral part of the ML modeling process. Sometimes the data cannot be used in the raw form and therefore it needs feature engineering. Having a representative input is very crucial for the project.

### Data Types 
Next problem is *mapping inputs to outputs*. Sometimes we have to consider the hierarchy of needs of data. 

## Data Availability 
There are different levels of data availability, from best-case scenario to the most challenging. Sometime best one a usually most hardest to find. 

#### Labeled data exists 

